Declan Harris
09/19/2021

Interview Question 3: When is it appropriate to use containers in cloud deployments, and what are the security benefits of doing so? 

	
	When setting up a Virtual Network, there are many different things you must take into consideration. In our project we set up Containers to run specific Programs centered around Pen-testing. One of the main things that especially businesses need to look at is their resource use. When setting up a virtual network you must choose the systems in the environment, and each system costs the company or user money to run. While having fancy and robust systems on your network might sound like a good idea, this may end up costing your company much more than what they could be spending. There are many tasks that a Cybersecurity Analyst and other Network Administrators use that can be simplified and ran through what is called a Container. A container is a software package that contains all the necessary code to run in any environment. It has no extra software built in, and works at the most basic level to ensure its network footprint is as small as possible. Not only can using Containers for basic application functions save you money on Load requirements for your Network, but they are also very easy to set up security for.  Containers also are a lightweight solution for web developers to ensure that their code and application can run on almost any OS, allowing for quick deployment and testing. Containers make it easy to share CPU, memory, storage, and Network Resources at the OS level. They are basic applications that can run as a single resource on a computer for one specified task. They are also Isolated environments, so developers can test their resources and not affect anything else on the Network. This is especially helpful for testing harmful malware that could spread to other devices on an unprotected device. Containers also run independent of the other containers on a machine, allowing for uninterrupted service on other containers inside a machine that is running containers. This is especially useful for Cybersecurity specialists when testing and monitoring suspicious/malicious Malware. The final reason they are useful is that they are compatible with almost any environment, allowing for fast and reliable deployment which can increase productivity for the user. In our Project we used the Jumpbox ansible container to install the containers on the other servers. This allowed for multiple deployments of the Webserver OS we wanted on Web-1 and Web-2. We also designed a container to monitor system logs and file transfers for pen-testing as mentioned before. We ensured that the Containers were running correctly by closing off all traffic to all ports other than the ones we specified, then attempting to reach those applications through those ports on our home PC. This allowed us for independently running containers we could use to monitor and make changes to each other. These examples are just a few of the many advantages that can be found when using Containers in your Virtual Network Deployments.
